FOR PUBLICATION
  UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
 FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT
   HIQ LABS
, INC., Plaintiff
-Appellee
,  v.  LINKED
IN CORPORATION
, Defendant
-Appellant.
  No.
 17-16783  D.C. No.
 3:17
-cv-03301-EMC
   OPINION
  Appeal from the United 
States District Court
 for the Northern District of California
 Edward M. Chen, District Judge, Presiding
  Argued and Submitted March 15, 2018
 San Francisco, California
  Filed September 9, 2019
  Before:  J. Clifford Wallace and Marsha S. Berzon, 
Circuit 
Judges, and Terrence Berg,
* District Judge.
  Opinion by Judge Berzon
; Concurrence by Judge Wallace
    * The Honorable Terrence Berg, United States District Judge for the 
Eastern District of Michigan, 
sitting by designation.
 2 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  SUMMARY
**
    Preliminary Injunction / Computer Fraud and 
Abuse
 Act
   The panel affirmed the district court™s preliminary 
injunction forbidding the professional networking website 
LinkedIn Corp. from denying plaintiff hiQ, a data analytics 
company, access to publicly available LinkedIn member 
profiles.
   Using automated bots, hiQ scrapes information that 
LinkedIn users have included on public LinkedIn profiles.  
LinkedIn sent hiQ a cause
-and
-desist letter, demanding that 
hiQ stop accessing and copying data from LinkedIn™s server.  
HiQ filed suit, seeking
 injunctive relief based on California 
law and a declaratory judgment that LinkedIn could not 
lawfully invoke the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act 
(ﬁCFAAﬂ), the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, 
California Penal Code §
 502(c), or the common law of 
trespass aga
inst it.
   Affirming the district court™s grant of the preliminary 
injunction in favor of hiQ, the panel concluded that hiQ 
established a likelihood of irreparable harm because the 
survival of its business was threatened.  The panel held that 
the district court did n
ot abuse its discretion in balancing the 
equities and concluding that, even if some LinkedIn users 
retain some privacy interests in their information 
notwithstanding their decision to make their profiles public, 
 ** This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court.  It 
has been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
  HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 3  those interests did not outweigh hiQ™s inter
est in continuing 
its business.  Thus, the balance of hardships tipped decidedly 
in favor of hiQ.  
   The panel further held that hiQ raised serious questions 
going to (1)
 the merits of its claim for tortious interference 
with contract, alleging that Linke
dIn intentionally interfered 
with its contracts with third parties, and (2)
 the merits of 
LinkedIn™s legitimate business purpose defense.  HiQ also 
raised a serious question as to whether its state law causes of 
action were preempted by the CFAA, which pro
hibits 
intentionally accessing a computer without authorization, or 
exceeding authorized access, and thereby obtaining 
information from any protected computer.  LinkedIn argued 
that, once hiQ received its cause
-and
-desist letter, any 
further scraping and u
se of LinkedIn™s data was without 
authorization within the meaning of the CFAA.  The panel 
concluded that hiQ had raised a serious question as to 
whether the CFAA™s reference to access ﬁwithout 
authorizationﬂ limits the scope of statutory coverage to 
compu
ter information for which authorization or access 
permission, such as password authentication, is generally 
required.
   Finally, the panel held that the district court™s conclusion 
that the public interest favored granting the preliminary 
injunction was ap
propriate.
   Specially concurring, Judge Wallace wrote that he 
concurred in the majority opinion.  He wrote separately to 
express his concern about appealing from a preliminary 
injunction to obtain an appellate court™s view of the merits.
   4 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  COUNSEL
  Donald
 B. Ver
rilli Jr. (argued)
 and Chad I. Golder
, Munger 
Tolles & Olson LLP,
 Washington, D.C.
; Jonathan H. Blavin, 
Rosemarie T. Ring, Nicholas D. Fram, and Elia Herrera, 
Munger Tolles & Olson LLP, San Francisco, California;
 E. 
Joshua Rosenkranz, Orrick Herring
ton & Sutcliffe LLP, 
New York, New York; Eric A. Shumsky, Orrick Herrington 
& Sutcliffe LLP, Washington, D.C.; Brian P. Goldman, 
Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, San Francisco, 
California;
 for Defendant
-Appella
nt.
  C. 
Brandon Wisoff (argued),
 Deepak Gupt
a, Jeffrey G. Lau, 
and Rebecca H. Stephens, Farella Braun & Martel LLP,
 San 
Francisco, California
; Aaron M. Panner, Gregory G. 
Rapawy, and T. Dietrich Hill, Kellogg Hansen Todd Figel & 
Frederick PLLC, Washington, D.C.; Laurence H. Tribe, 
Cambridge, Massach
usetts;
 for Plaintiff
-Appellee.
  Nicholas J. Boyle, John S. Williams, and Eric J. Hamilton, 
Williams & Connolly LLP, Washington, D.C., for Amicus 
Curiae Co
Star Group Inc.
  Perry J. Viscounty, Latham & Watkins LLP, San Francisco, 
California; Gregory G. Garr
e, Latham & Watkins LLP, 
Washington, D.C.; for Amicus Curiae Craigslist Inc.
  Marc Rotenberg and Alan Butler, Electronic Privacy 
Information Center, Washington, D.C., for Amicus Curiae 
Electronic
 Privacy Information Center.
  Thomas V. 
Christopher, Law Offices of Thomas V. 
Christopher, San Francisco, California, for Amicus Curiae 
3taps Inc.
   HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 5  Jamie Williams, Corynne McSherry, Cindy Cohn, and 
Nathan Cardozo, Electronic Frontier Foundation, San 
Francisco, California, for Amici Curiae Electr
onic Frontier 
Foundation, DuckDuckGo, and Internet Archive.
  Kenneth L. Wilton and James M. Harris, Seyfarth Shaw 
LLP, Los Angeles, California; Carrie P. Price, Seyfarth 
Shaw LLP, San Francisco, California; for Amicus Curiae 
Scraping Hub Ltd.
   OPINION
 BERZON, Circuit Judge:
 May LinkedIn, the professional networking website, 
prevent a competitor, hiQ, from collecting and using 
information that LinkedIn users have shared on their public 
profiles, available for viewing by anyone with a web 
browser?
 HiQ, a data analytics company, obtained a 
preliminary injunction forbidding LinkedIn from denying 
hiQ access to publicly available LinkedIn member profiles. 
At this preliminary injunction stage, we do not resolve the 
companies™ legal dispute definitively,
 nor do we address all 
the claims and defenses they have pleaded in the district 
court. Instead, we focus on whether hiQ has raised serious 
questions on the merits of the factual and legal issues 
presented to us, as well as on the other requisites for 
prel
iminary relief.
 I. Founded in 2002, LinkedIn is a professional networking 
website with over 500 million members. Members post 
resumes and job listings and build professional 
ﬁconnectionsﬂ with other members. LinkedIn specifically 
6 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  disclaims ownership of the
 information users post to their 
personal profiles: according to LinkedIn™s User Agreement, 
members own the content and information they submit or 
post to LinkedIn and grant LinkedIn only a non
-exclusive 
license to ﬁuse, copy, modify, distribute, publish, 
and 
processﬂ that information.
 LinkedIn allows its members to choose among various 
privacy settings. Members can specify which portions of 
their profile are visible to the general public (that is, to both 
LinkedIn members and nonmembers), and which portion
s are visible only to direct connections, to the member™s 
ﬁnetworkﬂ (consisting of LinkedIn members within three 
degrees of connectivity), or to all LinkedIn members.
1 This 
case deals only with profiles made visible to the general 
public.
 LinkedIn also off
ers all members
Šwhatever their 
profile privacy settings
Ša ﬁDo Not Broadcastﬂ option with 
respect to every change they make to their profiles. If a 
LinkedIn member selects this option, her connections will 
not be notified when she updates her profile inform
ation, 
although the updated information will still appear on her 
profile page (and thus be visible to anyone permitted to view 
her profile under her general privacy setting). More than 50 
 1 Direct connections (or first
-degree connections) are people to 
whom a LinkedIn member is conn
ected by virtue of having invited them 
to connect and had the invitation accepted, or of having accepted their 
invitation to connect. Second
-degree connections are people connected 
to a member™s first
-degree connections. Third
-degree connections are 
people
 connected to a member™s second
-degree connections. A LinkedIn 
member™s network consists of the member™s first
-degree, second
-degree, 
and third
-degree connections, as well as fellow members of the same 
LinkedIn Groups (groups of members in the same industr
y or with 
similar interests that any member can request to join).
  HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 7  million LinkedIn members have, at some point, elected to 
employ the 
ﬁDo Not Broadcastﬂ feature, and approximately 
20 percent of all active users who updated their profiles 
between July 2016 and July 2017
Šwhatever their privacy 
setting
Šemployed the ﬁDo Not Broadcastﬂ setting.
 LinkedIn has taken steps to protect the data on 
its website 
from what it perceives as misuse or misappropriation. The 
instructions in LinkedIn™s ﬁrobots.txtﬂ file
Ša text file used 
by website owners to communicate with search engine 
crawlers and other web robots
Šprohibit access to LinkedIn 
servers via au
tomated bots, except that certain entities, like 
the Google search engine, have express permission from 
LinkedIn for bot access.
2 LinkedIn also employs several 
technological systems to detect suspicious activity and 
 2 A web robot (or ﬁbotﬂ) is an application that performs automated 
tasks such as retrieving and analyzing information. 
See Definition of 
ﬁbot,ﬂ
 Merriam
-Webster Dictionary, 
https://www.merriam
-webster.com/dictionary/bot
 (last visited July 12, 2019). A web crawler 
is one common type of bot that systematically searches the Internet and 
downloads copies of web pages, which can then be indexed by a search 
engine. 
See Assoc. Press
 v. Meltwater U.S. Holdings, Inc.
, 931 F. Supp. 
2d 537, 544 (S.D.N.Y. 2013); 
Definition of ﬁweb crawler,ﬂ
 Merriam
-Webster
 Dictionary,
 https://www.merriam
-webster.com/dictionary/web
%20crawler
 (last visited July 12, 2019). A robots.txt file, also known as 
the robots exclusion protocol, is a widely used standard for stating the 
rules that a web server has adopted to govern a bot™s behavior on that 
server. 
See About /robots.txt
, http://www.robotstxt.org/robotstxt.html
 (last visited July 12, 2019). For example, 
a robots.txt file might instruct 
specified robots to ignore certain files when crawling a site, so that the 
files do not appear in search engine results. Adherence to the rules in a 
robots.txt file is voluntary; malicious bots may deliberately choose not 
to honor robots.txt rules and may in turn be punished with a denial of 
access to the website in question. 
See Can I Block Just Bad Robots?
, http://www.robotstxt.org/faq/blockjustbad.html
 (last visited July 12, 
2019); 
cf. Assoc. Press
, 931 F. Supp. 2d at 563
 (S.D.N.Y. 2013).
  8 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  restrict automated scraping.
3 For exampl
e, LinkedIn™s 
Quicksand system detects non
-human activity indicative of 
scraping; its Sentinel system throttles (slows or limits) or 
even blocks activity from suspicious IP addresses;
4 and its 
Org Block system generates a list of known ﬁbadﬂ IP 
addresses s
erving as large
-scale scrapers. In total, LinkedIn 
blocks approximately 95 million automated attempts to 
scrape data every day, and has restricted over 11 million 
accounts suspected of violating its User Agreement,
5 including through scraping.
 HiQ is a dat
a analytics company founded in 2012. Using 
automated bots, it scrapes information that LinkedIn users 
 3 Scraping involves extracting data from a website and copying it 
into a structured format, allowing for data manipulation or analysis. 
See,
 e.g.
, What
 Is a Screen
 Scraper?
, WiseGeek,
 http://www.wisegeek.
com/what
-is-a-screen
-scraper.htm
 (last visited July 12, 2019). Scraping 
can be done manually, but as in this case, it is typically done by a web 
robot or ﬁbot.ﬂ 
See supra
 note 2.
 4 ﬁIP addressﬂ is an abbreviation for Internet protocol address, which 
is a numerical identifier for each compu
ter or network connected to the 
Internet. 
See Definition of ﬁIP Address,ﬂ
 Merriam
-Webster Dictionary,
 https://www.merriam
-webster.com/dictionary/IP%20address
 (last 
visited July 12, 2019).
 5 Section 8.2 of the LinkedIn User Agreement to which hiQ agreed 
sta
tes that users agree not to ﬁ[s]crape or copy profiles and information 
of others through any means (including crawlers, browser plugins and 
add
-ons, and any other technology or manual work),ﬂ ﬁ[c]opy or use the 
information, content or data on LinkedIn in c
onnection with a 
competitive service (as determined by LinkedIn),ﬂ ﬁ[u]se manual or 
automated software, devices, scripts robots, other means or processes to 
access, ‚scrape,™ ‚crawl™ or ‚spider™ the Services or any related data or 
information,ﬂ or ﬁ[u]se b
ots or other automated methods to access the 
Services.ﬂ HiQ is no longer bound by the User Agreement, as LinkedIn 
has terminated hiQ™s user status.
  HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 9  have included on public LinkedIn profiles, including name, 
job title, work history, and skills. It then uses that 
information, along with a proprietary pr
edictive algorithm, 
to yield ﬁpeople analytics,ﬂ which it sells to business clients.
 HiQ offers two such analytics. The first, Keeper, 
purports to identify employees at the greatest risk of being 
recruited away. According to hiQ, the product enables 
employ
ers to offer career development opportunities, 
retention bonuses, or other perks to retain valuable 
employees. The second, Skill Mapper, summarizes 
employees™ skills in the aggregate. Among other things, the 
tool is supposed to help employers identify skil
l gaps in their 
workforces so that they can offer internal training in those 
areas, promoting internal mobility and reducing the expense 
of external recruitment.
 HiQ regularly organizes ﬁElevateﬂ conferences, during 
which participants discuss hiQ™s busines
s model and share 
best practices in the people analytics field. LinkedIn 
representatives participated in Elevate conferences 
beginning in October 2015. At least ten LinkedIn 
representatives attended the conferences. LinkedIn 
employees have also spoken at E
levate conferences. In 2016, 
a LinkedIn employee was awarded the Elevate ﬁImpact 
Award.ﬂ LinkedIn employees thus had an opportunity to 
learn about hiQ™s products, including ﬁthat [one of] hiQ™s 
product[s] used data from a variety of sources
Šinternal and 
external
Što predict employee attritionﬂ and that hiQ 
ﬁcollected skills data from public professional profiles in 
order to provide hiQ™s customers information about their 
employees™ skill sets.ﬂ
 In recent years, LinkedIn has explored ways to capitalize 
on the
 vast amounts of data contained in LinkedIn profiles 
by marketing new products. In June 2017, LinkedIn™s Chief 
10 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  Executive Officer (ﬁCEOﬂ), Jeff Weiner, appearing on CBS, 
explained that LinkedIn hoped to ﬁleverage all this 
extraordinary data we™ve been able 
to collect by virtue of 
having 500 million people join the site.ﬂ Weiner mentioned 
as possibilities providing employers with data
-driven 
insights about what skills they will need to grow and where 
they can find employees with those skills. Since then, 
Link
edIn has announced a new product, Talent Insights, 
which analyzes LinkedIn data to provide companies with 
such data
-driven information.
6 In May 2017, LinkedIn sent hiQ a cease
-and
-desist letter, 
asserting that hiQ was in violation of LinkedIn™s User 
Agreem
ent and demanding that hiQ stop accessing and 
copying data from LinkedIn™s server. The letter stated that if 
hiQ accessed LinkedIn™s data in the future, it would be 
violating state and federal law, including the Computer 
Fraud and Abuse Act (ﬁCFAAﬂ), the D
igital Millennium 
Copyright Act (ﬁDMCAﬂ), California Penal Code 
§ 502(c), 
and the California common law of trespass. The letter further 
stated that LinkedIn had ﬁimplemented technical measures 
to prevent hiQ from accessing, and assisting others to access, 
LinkedIn™s site, through systems that detect, monitor, and 
block scraping activity.ﬂ
  6 The record does not specifically name Talent Insights, but at a 
district court hearing on June 29, 2017, c
ounsel for hiQ referenced Mr. 
Weiner™s statements on CBS and stated that ﬁin the past 24 hours we™ve 
received word 
. . . that LinkedIn is launching a product that is essentially 
the same or very similar to [hiQ™s] Skill Mapper, and trying to market it 
head
-to-head against us.ﬂ LinkedIn has since launched Talent Insights, 
which, among other things, promises to help employers ﬁunderstand the 
. . . skills that are growing fastest at your company.ﬂ 
See
 https://business.linkedin.com/talent
-solutions/blog/product
-updates/201
8/linkedin
-talent
-insights
-now-available
 (last visited July 12, 2019).
  HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 11  HiQ™s response was to demand that LinkedIn recognize 
hiQ™s right to access LinkedIn™s public pages and to threaten 
to seek an injunction if LinkedIn refused. A week later,
 hiQ 
filed suit, seeking injunctive relief based on California law 
and a declaratory judgment that LinkedIn could not lawfully 
invoke the CFAA, the DMCA, California Penal Code 
§ 502(c), or the common law of trespass against it. HiQ also 
filed a request for
 a temporary restraining order, which the 
parties subsequently agreed to convert into a motion for a 
preliminary injunction.
 The district court granted hiQ™s motion. It ordered 
LinkedIn to withdraw its cease
-and
-desist letter, to remove 
any existing techni
cal barriers to hiQ™s access to public 
profiles, and to refrain from putting in place any legal or 
technical measures with the effect of blocking hiQ™s access 
to public profiles. LinkedIn timely appealed.
 II. ﬁA plaintiff seeking a preliminary injunction m
ust 
establish that he is likely to succeed on the merits, that he is 
likely to suffer irreparable harm in the absence of 
preliminary relief, that the balance of equities tips in his 
favor, and that an injunction is in the public interest.ﬂ 
Winter 
v. Nat. R
es. Def. Council, Inc.
, 555 U.S. 7, 20 (2008). All 
four elements must be satisfied. 
See, e.g.
, Am. Trucking 
Ass™n v. City of Los Angeles
, 559 F.3d 1046, 1057 (9th Cir. 
2009). We use a ﬁsliding scaleﬂ approach to these factors, 
according to which ﬁa stronge
r showing of one element may 
offset a weaker showing of another.ﬂ 
Alliance for the Wild 
Rockies v. Cottrell
, 632 F.3d 1127, 1131 (9th Cir. 2011). So, 
when the balance of hardships tips sharply in the plaintiff™s 
favor, the plaintiff need demonstrate only ﬁ
serious questions 
going to the merits.ﬂ 
Id.
 at 1135.
 12 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  Applying that sliding scale approach, the district court 
granted hiQ a preliminary injunction, concluding that the 
balance of hardships tips sharply in hiQ™s favor and that hiQ 
raised serious questions o
n the merits. We review the district 
court™s decision to grant a preliminary injunction for abuse 
of discretion. The grant of a preliminary injunction 
constitutes an abuse of discretion if the district court™s 
evaluation or balancing of the pertinent facto
rs is ﬁillogical, 
implausible, or without support in the record.ﬂ 
Doe v. Kelly
, 878 F.3d 710, 713 (9th Cir. 2017).
 A. Irreparable Harm
 We begin with the likelihood of irreparable injury to hiQ 
if preliminary relief were not granted.
 ﬁ[M]onetary injury is not normally considered 
irreparable.ﬂ 
Los Angeles Mem™l Coliseum Comm™n v. Nat™l 
Football League
, 634 F.2d 1197, 1202 (9th Cir. 1980). 
Nonetheless, ﬁ[t]he threat of being driven out of business is 
sufficient to establish irreparable h
arm.ﬂ 
Am. Passage Media 
Corp. v. Cass Commc™ns, Inc.
, 750 F.2d 1470, 1474 (9th Cir. 
1985). As the Second Circuit has explained, ﬁ[t]he loss of 
. . . an ongoing business representing many years of effort 
and the livelihood of its 
. . . owners, constitutes i
rreparable 
harm. What plaintiff stands to lose cannot be fully 
compensated by subsequent monetary damages.ﬂ 
Roso Lino 
Beverage Distributors, Inc. v. Coca Cola Bottling Co. of 
New York, Inc.
, 749 F.2d 124, 125
Œ26 (2d Cir. 1984) (per 
curiam). Thus, showing a
 threat of ﬁextinctionﬂ is enough to 
establish irreparable harm, even when damages may be 
availa
ble and the amount of direct financial harm is 
ascertainable. 
Am. Passage Media Corp.
, 750 F.2d at 1474.
 The district
 court found credible hiQ™s assertion that the 
survival
 of its business is threatened absent a preliminary 
 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 13  injunction. The record provides ample support for that 
finding.
 According to hiQ™s CEO, ﬁhiQ™s entire business depends 
on being able to access public
 LinkedIn member profiles,ﬂ 
as ﬁthere is no current viable alternative to LinkedIn™s 
member database to obtain data for hiQ™s Keeper and Skill 
Mapper services.ﬂ Without access to LinkedIn public profile 
data, the CEO averred, hiQ will likely be forced to b
reach its 
existing contracts with clients such as eBay, Capital One, 
and GoDaddy, and to pass up pending deals with prospective 
clients. The harm hiQ faces absent a preliminary injunction 
is not purely hypothetical. HiQ was in the middle of a 
financing rou
nd when it received LinkedIn™s cease
-and
-desist letter. The CEO reported that, in light of the 
uncertainty about the future viability of hiQ™s business, that 
financing round stalled, and several employees left the 
company. If LinkedIn prevails, hiQ™s CEO f
urther asserted, 
hiQ would have to ﬁlay off most if not all its employees, and 
shutter its operations.ﬂ
 LinkedIn maintains that hiQ™s business model does not 
depend on access to LinkedIn data. It insists that alternatives 
to LinkedIn data exist, and points
 in particular to the 
professional data some users post on Facebook. But hiQ™s 
model depends on access to publicly available data from 
people who choose to share their information with the world. 
Facebook data
, by contrast, is not generally accessible, 
see
 infra
 p. 31, and
 therefore is not an equivalent alternative 
source of data.
 LinkedIn also urges that even if there is no adequate 
alternative database, hiQ could collect its ow
n data through 
employee surveys. But hiQ is a data analytics company, not 
a data collection company. Suggesting that hiQ could 
fundamentally change the nature of its business, not simply 
14 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  the manner in which it conducts its current business, is a 
recognitio
n that hiQ™s current business could not survive 
without access to LinkedIn public profile data. Creating a 
data collection system would undoubtedly require a 
considerable amount of time and expense. That hiQ could 
feasibly remain in business with no produc
ts to sell while 
raising the required capital and devising and implementing 
an entirely new data collection system is at least highly 
dubious.
 In short, the district court did not abuse its discretion in 
concluding on the preliminary injunction record that
 hiQ 
currently has n
o viable way to remain in business other than 
using LinkedIn public profile data for its Keeper and Skill 
Mapper services, and that HiQ therefore has demonstrated a 
likelihood of irreparable harm absent a preliminary 
injunction.
 B. Bala
nce of the Equities
 Next, the district court ﬁbalance[d] the interests of all 
parties and weigh[ed] the damage to each in determining the 
balance of the equities.ﬂ 
CTIA
-The Wireless Ass™n v. City of 
Berkeley, Calif.
, 928 F.3d 832, 852 (9th Cir. 2019) (inte
rnal 
quotation marks and citation omitted). Again, it did not 
abuse its discretion in doing so.
 On one side of the scale is the harm to hiQ just discussed: 
the likelihood that, without an injunction, it will go out of 
business. On the other side, LinkedIn 
asserts that the 
injunction threatens its members™ privacy and therefore puts 
at risk the goodwill LinkedIn has developed with its 
members. As the district court observed, ﬁthe fact that a user 
has set his profile to public does not imply that he wants any
 third parties to collect and use that data for all purposes.ﬂ 
LinkedIn points in particular to the more than 50 million 
 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 15  members who have used the ﬁDo Not Broadcastﬂ feature to 
ensure that other users are not notified when the member 
makes a profile change
. According to LinkedIn, the 
popularity of the ﬁDo Not Broadcastﬂ feature indicates that 
many members
Šincluding members who choose to share 
their information publicly
Šdo not want their employers to 
know they may be searching for a new job. An employer 
who 
learns that an employee may be planning to leave will 
not necessarily reward that employee with a retention bonus. 
Instead, the employer could decide to limit the employee™s 
access to sensitive information or even to terminate the 
employee.
 There is suppor
t in the record for the district court™s 
connected conclusions that (1) LinkedIn™s assertions have 
some merit; and (2)
 there are reasons to discount them to 
some extent. First, there is little evidence that LinkedIn users 
who choose to make their profiles 
public actually maintain 
an expectation of privacy with respect to the information that 
they post publicly, and it is doubtful that they do. LinkedIn™s 
privacy policy clearly states that ﬁ[a]ny information you put 
on your profile and any content you post o
n LinkedIn may 
be seen by othersﬂ and instructs users not to ﬁpost or add 
personal data to your profile that you would not want to be 
public.ﬂ
 Second, there is no evidence in the record to suggest that 
most people who select the ﬁDo Not Broadcastﬂ option d
o so 
to pre
vent their employers from being alerted to profile 
changes made in anticipation of a job search. As the district 
court noted, there are other reasons why users may choose 
that option
Šmost notably, many users may simply wish to 
avoid sending thei
r connections annoying notifications each 
time there is a profile change. In any event, employers can 
always directly consult the profiles of users who chose to 
16 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  make their profiles public to see if any recent changes have 
been made. Employees intent on kee
ping such information 
from their employers can do so by rejecting public exposure 
of their profiles and eliminating their employers as contacts.
 Finally, LinkedIn™s own actions undercut its argument 
that users have an expectation of privacy in public profi
les. 
LinkedIn™s ﬁRecruiterﬂ product enables recruiters to 
ﬁfollowﬂ prospects, get ﬁalert[ed] when prospects make 
changes to their profiles,ﬂ and ﬁuse those [alerts] as signals 
to reach out at just the right moment,ﬂ without the prospect™s 
knowledge.
7 And s
ubscribers to LinkedIn™s ﬁtalent 
recruiting, marketing and sales solutionsﬂ can export data 
from members™ public profiles, such as ﬁname, headline, 
current company, current title, and location.ﬂ
 In short, even if some users retain some privacy interests 
in their information notwithstanding their decision to make 
their profiles public, we cannot, on the record before us, 
conclude that those interests
Šor more specifically, 
LinkedIn™s interest in preventing hiQ from scraping those 
profiles
Šare signifi
cant enou
gh to outweigh hiQ™s interest 
in continuing its business, which depends on accessing, 
analyzing, and communicating information derived from 
public LinkedIn profiles.
 Nor do the other h
arms asserted by LinkedIn tip the 
balance of harms with regard to prelim
inary relief. LinkedIn 
invokes an interest in preventing ﬁfree ridersﬂ from using 
profiles posted on its platform. But LinkedIn has no 
protected property interest in the data contributed by its 
users, as the users retain ownership over their profiles. And 
 7 Recruiter does not provide alerts about profile changes made by 
LinkedIn members who select the ﬁDo Not Broadcastﬂ setting.
  HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 17  as to the publicly available profiles, the users quite evidently 
intend them to be accessed by others, including for 
commercial purposes
Šfor example, by employers seeking 
to hire individuals with certain credentials. Of course, 
LinkedIn could satisfy its ﬁ
free riderﬂ concern by eliminating 
the public access option, albeit at a cost to the preferences of 
many users and, possibly, to its own bottom line.
 We conclude that the district court™s determination that 
the balance of hardships tips sharply in hiQ™s fa
vor is not 
ﬁillogical, implausible, or without support in the record.ﬂ 
Kelly
, 878 F.3d at 713.
 C. Likelihood of Success
 Because 
hiQ has established that the balance of 
hardships tips decidedly in its favor, the likelihood
-of-success prong of the preliminar
y injunction inquiry focuses 
on whether hiQ has raised ﬁserious questions going to the 
merits.ﬂ 
Alliance for the Wild Rockies
, 632 F.3d at 1131. It 
has.
 As usual, we consider only the claims and defenses that 
the parties press on appeal. We recognize that 
the companies 
have invoked additional claims and defenses in the district 
court, and we express no opinion as to whether any of those 
claims or defenses might ultimately prove meritorious. Thus, 
while hiQ advanced several affirmative claims in support of 
its request for preliminary injunctive relief, here we consider 
only whether hiQ has raised serious questions on the merits 
of its claims either for intentional interference with contract 
or unfair competition, under California™s Unfair 
Competition Law, Cal
. Bus. & Prof. Code 
§ 17200 
et seq.
 Likewise, while LinkedIn has asserted that it has ﬁclaims 
under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and under 
trespass and misappropriation doctrines,ﬂ it has chosen for 
18 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  present purposes to focus on a defense based on t
he CFAA, 
so that is the sole defense to hiQ™s claims that we address 
here.
 1. Tortious Interference with Contract
 HiQ alleges that LinkedIn intentionally interfered with 
hiQ™s contracts with third parties. ﬁThe elements which a 
plaintiff must plead to stat
e the cause of action for intentional 
interfere
nce with contractual relations are (1) a valid contract 
between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant™s 
knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant™s intentional acts 
designed to induce a breach or disrupti
on of the contractual 
relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the 
contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.ﬂ 
Pac. 
Gas & Elec. Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co.
, 50 Cal. 3d 1118, 
1126 (1990).
8 HiQ has shown a sufficient likelihood of establishing
 each of these elements. First, LinkedIn does not contest 
 8 Under California law, tortious interference w
ith contract claims are 
not limited to circumstances in which the defendant has caused the third 
party with whom the plaintiff has contracted to breach the agreement. 
ﬁThe most general application of the rule is to cases where the party with 
whom the plain
tiff has entered into an agreement has been induced to 
breach it, but the rule is also applicable where the plaintiff™s performance 
has been prevented or rendered more expensive or burdensome and 
where he has been induced to breach the contract by conduct 
of the 
defendant, such as threats of economic reprisals.ﬂ 
Lipman v. Brisbane 
Elementary Sch. Dist.
, 55 Cal. 2d 224, 232 (1961), 
abrogated on other 
grounds by Brown v. Kelly Broadcasting Co.
, 48 Cal. 3d 711, 753 n.37 
(1989); 
see also Pac. Gas & Elec. Co.
, 50 Cal. 3d at 1129 (ﬁWe have 
recognized that interference with the plaintiff™s performance may give 
rise to a claim for interference with contractual relations if plaintiff™s 
performance is 
made more costly or more burdensome.ﬂ).
  HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 19  hiQ™s evidence that contracts exist between hiQ and some 
customers, including eBay, Capital One, and GoDaddy.
 Second, hiQ will likely be able to establish that LinkedIn 
knew of hiQ™s scraping activi
ty and products for some time. 
LinkedIn began sending representatives to hiQ™s Elevate 
conferences in October 2015. At those conferences, hiQ 
discussed its business model, including its use of data from 
external sources to predict employee attrition. Linke
dIn™s 
director of business operations and analytics, who attended 
several Elevate conferences, specifically ﬁrecall[s] someone 
from hiQ stating [at the April 2017 conference] that they 
collected skills data from public professional profiles in 
order to pro
vide hiQ™s customers information about their 
employees™ skill sets.ﬂ Additionally, LinkedIn 
acknowledged in its cease
-and
-desist letter that ﬁhiQ has 
stated during marketing presentations that its Skill Mapper 
product is built on profile data from LinkedIn
.ﬂ Finally, at a 
minimum, LinkedIn knew of hiQ™s contracts as of May 31, 
2017, when hiQ responded to LinkedIn™s cease
-and
-desist 
letter and identified both current and prospective hiQ clients.
 Third, LinkedIn™s threats to invoke the CFAA and 
implementation
 of technical measures selectively to ban hiQ 
bots could well constitute ﬁintentional acts designed to 
induce a breach or disruptionﬂ of hiQ™s contractual 
relationships with third parties. 
Pac. Gas & Elec. Co.
, 50 Cal. 3d at 1126; 
cf. Winchester 
Mystery House, LLC v. 
Global Asylum, Inc.
, 210 Cal. App. 4th 579, 597 (2012) 
(indicating that ﬁcease
-and
-desist letters 
. . . refer[ring] to a[] 
contractual or other economic relationship between plaintiff 
and any third partyﬂ could ﬁestablish 
. . . the 
. . . intent 
element[] of the interference claim[]ﬂ).
 Fourth, the contractual relationships between hiQ and 
third parties have been disrupted and ﬁnow hang[] in the 
20 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  balance.ﬂ Without access to LinkedIn data, hiQ will likely 
be unable to deliver its services 
to its existing customers as 
promised.
 Last, hiQ is harmed by the disruption to its existing 
contracts and interference with its pending contracts. 
Without the revenue fr
om sale of its products, hiQ will likely 
go out of business. 
See supra
 pp. 12Œ14. LinkedIn does not specifically challen
ge hiQ™s ability to 
make out any of these e
lements of a tortious interference 
claim. Instead, LinkedIn maintains that it has a ﬁlegitimate 
business purposeﬂ defense to any such claim. 
Cf. Quelimane 
Co. v. Stewart Title Guar. Co.
, 19 Cal. 4th 26, 57 (1998), 
as 
modified
 (Sept. 23, 1998). That content
ion is an affirmative 
justification defense for which LinkedIn bears the burden of 
proof. 
See id.
 Under California law, a legitimate business purpose can 
indeed justify interference with contract, but not just any 
such purpose suffices. 
See id.
 at 55
Œ56. Where a contractual 
relationship exists, the societal interest in ﬁcontractual 
stability is generally accepted as of greater importance than 
competitive freedom.ﬂ 
Imperial Ice Co. v. Rossier
, 18 Cal. 
2d 33, 36 (1941). Emphasizing the ﬁdistinction between 
claims for the tortious disruption of an existing contract and 
claims that a prospective contractual or economic 
relationship has been interfered with by the defendant,ﬂ the 
California Supreme Court instructs that we must ﬁbring[] a 
greater solicitude to tho
se relationships that have ripened 
into agreements.ﬂ 
Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, 
U.S.A., Inc.
, 11 Cal. 4th 376, 392 (1995). Thus, interference 
with an existing contract is not justified simply because a 
competitor ﬁseeks to further his own economic 
advantage at 
the expense of another.ﬂ 
Imperial Ice
, 18 Cal. 2d at 36; 
see 
id.
 at 37 (ﬁA party may not 
. . . under the guise of 
 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 21  competition 
. . . induce the breach of a competitor™s contract 
in order to secure an economic advantage.ﬂ). Rather, 
interference 
with contract is justified only when the party 
alleged to have interfered acted ﬁto protect an interest that 
has greater social value than insuring the stability of the 
contractﬂ interfered with. 
Id.
 at 35.
 Accordingly, California courts apply a 
balancing test to 
determine whether the interests advanced by interference 
with contract outweigh the societal interest in contractual 
stability:
 Whether an intentional interference by a third 
party is justifiable depends upon a balancing 
of the importance
, social and private, of the 
objective advanced by the interference 
against the importance of the interest 
interfered with, considering all circumstances 
including the nature of the actor™s conduct 
and the relationship between the parties.
 Herron v. State 
Farm Mut. Ins. Co.
, 56 Cal. 2d 202, 206 
(1961). Considerations include whether ﬁthe means of 
interference involve no more than recognized trade 
practices,ﬂ 
Buxbom v. Smith
, 23 Cal. 2d 535, 546 (1944), and 
whether the conduct is ﬁwithin the realm of fair 
competition,ﬂ 
Inst. of Veterinary Pathology, Inc. v. Cal. 
Health Labs., Inc.
, 116 Cal. App. 3d 111, 127 (Cal. Ct. App. 
1981). The ﬁdeterminative questionﬂ is whether the business 
interest is pretextual or ﬁasserted in good faith.ﬂ 
Richardson 
v. La Rancherita
, 98 Cal. App. 3d 73, 81 (Cal. Ct. App. 
1979).
 Balancing the interest in contractual stability and the 
specific interests interfered with against the interests 
advanced by the interference, we agree with the district court 
22 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  that hiQ has at least raised a se
rious question on the merits 
of LinkedIn™s affirmative justification defense. First, hiQ has 
a strong commercial interest in fulfilling its contractual 
obligations to large clients like eBay and Capital One. Those 
companies benefit from hiQ™s ability to ac
cess, aggregate, 
and analyze data from LinkedIn profiles.
 Second, LinkedIn™s means of interference is likely not a 
ﬁrecognized trade practiceﬂ as California courts have 
understood that term. ﬁRecognized trade practicesﬂ include 
such activities as ﬁadvertis
ing,ﬂ ﬁprice
-cutting,ﬂ and 
ﬁhir[ing] the employees of another for use in the hirer™s 
business,ﬂ 
Buxbom
, 23 Cal. 2d at 546
Œ47Šall practices 
which may indirectly interfere with a competitor™s contracts 
but do not fundamentally undermine a 
competitor™s basic 
business model. LinkedIn™s proactive technical measures to 
selectively block hiQ™s access to the data on its site are not 
similar to trade practices heretofore recognized as acceptable 
justifications for contract interference.
 Further, L
inkedIn™s conduct may well not be ﬁwithin the 
realm of fair competition.ﬂ 
Inst. of Veterinary Pathology
, 116 Cal. App. 3d at 127. HiQ has raised serious questions 
about whether LinkedIn™s actions to ban hiQ™s bots were 
taken in furtherance of LinkedIn™s ow
n plans to introduce a 
competing professional data analytics tool. There is evidence 
from which it can be inferred that LinkedIn knew about hiQ 
and its reliance on external data for several years before the 
present controversy. Its decision to send a cease
-and
-desist 
letter occurred within a month of the announcement by 
LinkedIn™s CEO that LinkedIn planned to leverage the data 
on its platform to create a new product for employers with 
some similarities to hiQ™s Skill Mapper product. If 
companies like Linked
In, whose servers hold vast amounts 
of public data, are permitted selectively to ban only potential 
 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 23  competitors from accessing and using that otherwise public 
data, the result
Šcomplete exclusion of the original 
innovator in aggregating and analyzing the pu
blic 
information
Šmay well be considered unfair competition 
under California law.
9 Finally, LinkedIn™s asserted private business interests
Šﬁprotecting its members™ data and the investment made in 
developing its platformﬂ and ﬁenforcing its User 
Agreements™ 
prohibitions on automated scrapingﬂ
Šare 
relatively weak. LinkedIn has only a non
-exclusive license 
to the data shared on its platform, not an ownership interest. 
Its core business model
Šproviding a platform to share 
professional information
Šdoes not requir
e prohibiting 
hiQ™s use of that information, as evidenced by the fact that 
hiQ used LinkedIn data for some time before LinkedIn sent 
its cease
-and
-desist letter. 
As to its members™ interests in 
their data, for the reasons already explained, 
see supra
 pp. 15Œ16, we agree with the district court that members™ 
privacy expectations regard
ing informati
on they have shared 
in their public profiles are ﬁuncertain at best.ﬂ Further, there 
is evidence that LinkedIn has itself developed a data 
analytics tool similar to HiQ™s products, undermining 
LinkedIn™s claim that it has its members™ privacy interests in 
mind. Finally, LinkedIn has not explained how it can enforce 
its user agreement against hiQ now that its user status has 
been terminated.
  9 The district court determined that LinkedIn™s legitimate business 
purpose defense overlapped with hiQ™s claim under California™s Unfair 
Competition Law (ﬁUCLﬂ), which the district court found raised serious 
questio
ns on the merits: ﬁhiQ has presented some evidence supporting 
its assertion that LinkedIn™s decision to revoke hiQ™s access to its data 
was made for the purpose of eliminating hiQ as a competitor in the data 
analytics field, and thus potentially ‚violates 
[the UCL].™ﬂ
 24 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  For all these reasons, LinkedIn may well not be able to 
demonstrate a ﬁlegitimate business purposeﬂ that could 
justify
 the intentional inducement of a contract breach, at 
least on the record now before us. We therefore conclude 
that hiQ has raised at least serious questions going to the 
merits of its tortious interference with contract claim. As that 
showing on the tortio
us interference claim is sufficient to 
support an injunction prohibiting LinkedIn from selectively 
blocking hiQ™s access to public member profiles, we do not 
reach hiQ™s unfair competition claim.
10
 2. Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA)
 Our inquiry does not
 end, however, with the state law 
tortious interference claim. LinkedIn argues that even if hiQ 
can show a likelihood of success on any of its state law 
causes of action, all those causes of action are preempted by 
the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (ﬁCFAAﬂ)
, 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1030, which LinkedIn asserts that hiQ violated.
 The CFAA states that ﬁ[w]hoever 
. . . intentionally 
accesses a computer without authorization or exceeds 
 10 LinkedIn also advances a business interest in ﬁasserting its rights 
under federal and state law.ﬂ That interest depends upon the scope of 
LinkedIn™s rights under the CFAA and California™s CFAA analogue, 
California Penal Code 
§ 502. Similarly
, LinkedIn argues that there can 
be no tortious interference because hiQ™s contracts are premised on 
unauthorized access to LinkedIn data and are therefore illegal. Under 
California law, ﬁ[i]f the central purpose of the contract is tainted with 
illegality,
 then the contract as a whole cannot be enforced.ﬂ 
Marathon 
Entm™t, Inc. v. Blasi
, 42 Cal. 4th 974, 996 (2008), 
as modified
 (Mar. 12, 
2008); 
see also
 Cal. Civ. Code 
§ 1598 (ﬁWhere a contract has but a single 
object, and such object is unlawful, whether in 
whole or in part, or wholly 
impossible of performance 
. . . the entire contract is void.ﬂ). As we 
explain next, however, hiQ has raised at least serious questions in 
support of its position that its activities are lawful under the CFAA.
  HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 25  authorized access, and thereby obtains 
. . . information from 
any protected computer 
. . . shall be punishedﬂ by fine or 
imprisonment. 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1030(a)(2)(C). Further, ﬁ[a]ny 
person who suffers damage or loss by reason of a violationﬂ 
of that provision may bring a civil suit ﬁagainst the violator 
to obtain compensatory damages and injunctiv
e relief or 
other equitable relief,ﬂ subject to certain conditions not 
relevant here. 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1030(g). The term ﬁprotected 
computerﬂ refers to any computer ﬁused in or affecting 
interstate or foreign commerce or communication,ﬂ 
18 U.S.C. 
§ 1030(e)(2)(B
)Šeffectively any computer 
connected to the Internet, 
see United States v. Nosal (Nosal 
II), 844 F.3d 1024, 1050 (9th Cir. 2016), 
cert. denied
, 138 S. 
Ct. 314 (2017)
Šincluding servers, computers that manage 
network resources and provide data to other computers. 
LinkedIn™s computer servers store the data members share 
on LinkedIn™s platform and provide that data to users who 
request to visit its 
website. Thus, to scrape LinkedIn data, 
hiQ must access LinkedIn servers, which are ﬁprotected 
computer[s].ﬂ 
See Nosal II
, 844 F.3d at 1050.
 The pivotal CFAA question here is whether once hiQ 
received LinkedIn™s cease
-and
-desist letter, any further 
scrapin
g and use of LinkedIn™s data was ﬁwithout 
authorizationﬂ within the meaning of the CFAA and thus a 
violation of the statute. 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1030(a)(2). If so, hiQ 
could have no legal right of access to LinkedIn™s data and so 
could not succeed on any of its st
ate law claims, including 
the tortious interference with contract claim we have held 
otherwise sufficient for preliminary injunction purposes.
 We have held in another context that the phrase 
ﬁ‚without authorization™ is a non
-technical term that, given 
its 
plain and ordinary meaning, means accessing a protected 
computer without permission.ﬂ 
Nosal II
, 844 F.3d at 1028. 
26 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  Nosal II
 involved an employee accessing without permission 
an employer™s private computer for which access 
permissions in the form of user acc
ounts were required. 
Id.
 at 1028
Œ29. Nosal II
 did not address whether access can be 
ﬁwithout authorizationﬂ under the CFAA where, as here, 
prior authorization is not generally required, but a particular 
person
Šor bot
Šis refused access. HiQ™s position is th
at 
Nosal II
 is consistent with the conclusion that where access 
is open to the general public, the CFAA ﬁwithout 
authorizationﬂ concept is inapplicable. At the very least, we 
conclude, hiQ has raised a serious question as to this issue.
 First, the wording 
of the statute, forbidding ﬁaccess[] 
. . . without authorization,ﬂ 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1030(a)(2), suggests a 
baseline in which access is not generally available and so 
permission is ordinarily required. ﬁAuthorizationﬂ is an 
affirmative notion, indicating that ac
cess is restricted to 
those specially recognized or admitted. 
See, e.g.
, Black™s 
Law Dictionary (10th ed. 2014) (defining ﬁauthorizationﬂ as 
ﬁ[o]fficial permission to do something; sanction or 
warrantﬂ). Where the default is free access without 
authorizati
on, in ordinary parlance one would characterize 
selective denial of access as a ban, not as a lack of 
ﬁauthorization.ﬂ 
Cf. Blankenhorn v. City of Orange
, 485 F.3d 463, 472 (9th Cir. 2007) (characterizing the exclusion 
of the plaintiff in particular from a 
shopping mall as 
ﬁbann[ing]ﬂ).
 Second, even if this interpretation is debatable, the 
legislative history of the statute confirms our understanding. 
ﬁIf [a] statute™s terms are ambiguous, we may use 
. . . legislative history[] and the statute™s overall purp
ose to 
illuminate Congress™s intent.ﬂ 
Jonah R. v. Carmona
, 446 F.3d 1000, 1005 (9th Cir. 2006).
  HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 27  The CFAA was enacted to prevent intentional intrusion 
onto someone else™s computer
Šspecifically, computer 
hacking. 
See United States v. Nosal (Nosal I)
, 676 F.3
d 854, 
858 (9th Cir. 2012) (citing S. Rep. No. 99
-432, at 9 (1986) 
(Conf. Rep.)).
 The 1984 House Report on the CFAA explicitly 
analogized the conduct prohibited by section 1030 to forced 
entry: ﬁIt is noteworthy that section 1030 deals with an 
‚unauthorize
d access™ concept of computer fraud rather than 
the mere use of a computer. Thus, the conduct prohibited is 
analogous to that of ‚breaking and entering™ 
. . . .™ﬂ H.R. 
Rep. No. 98
-894, at 20 (1984); 
see also id.
 at 10 (describing 
the problem of ﬁ‚hackers™ 
who have been able to access 
(trespass into) both private and public computer systemsﬂ). 
Senator Jeremiah Denton similarly characterized the CFAA 
as a statute designed to prevent unlawful intrusion into 
otherwise inaccessible computers, observing that ﬁ[t]
he bill 
makes it clear that unauthorized access to a Government 
computer is a trespass offense, as surely as if the offender 
had entered a restricted Government compound without 
proper authorization.ﬂ
11
 132 Cong. Rec. 27639 (1986) 
(emphasis added). And when
 considering amendments to the 
CFAA two years later, the House again linked computer 
intrusion to breaking and entering. 
See 
H.R. Rep. No. 99
-612, at 5
Œ6 (1986) (describing ﬁthe expanding group of 
electronic trespassers,ﬂ who trespass ﬁjust as much as if t
hey 
broke a window and crawled into a home while the 
occupants were awayﬂ).
 In recognizing that the CFAA is best understood as an 
anti
-intrusion statute and not as a ﬁmisappropriation statute,ﬂ 
 11 The CFAA original
ly prohibited only unauthorized access to 
government computers.
 28 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  Nosal I
, 676 F.3d at 857
Œ58, we rejected the contract
-based 
interpretation of the CFAA™s ﬁwithout authorizationﬂ 
provision adopted by some of our sister circuits. 
Compare 
Facebook, Inc. v. Power Ventures, Inc.
, 844 F.3d 1058, 1067 
(9th Cir. 2016), 
cert. denied
, 138 S. Ct. 313 (2017) (ﬁ[A] 
violation of the terms of us
e of a website
Šwithout more
Šcannot establish liability under the CFAA.ﬂ); 
Nosal I
, 676 F.3d at 862 (ﬁWe remain unpersuaded by the decisions 
of our sister circuits that interpret the CFAA broadly to cover 
violations of corporate computer use restrictions or
 violations of a duty of loyalty.ﬂ), 
with EF Cultural Travel 
BV v. Explorica, Inc.
, 274 F.3d 577, 583
Œ84 (1st Cir. 2001) 
(holding that violations of a confidentiality agreement or 
other contractual restraints could give rise to a claim for 
unauthorized acc
ess under the CFAA); 
United States v. 
Rodriguez
, 628 F.3d 1258, 1263 (11th Cir. 2010) (holding 
that a defendant ﬁexceeds authorized accessﬂ when violating 
policies governing authorized use of databases).
 We therefore look to whether the conduct at issue is
 analogous to ﬁbreaking and entering.ﬂ H.R. Rep. No. 98
-894, at 20. Significantly, the version of the CFAA initially 
enacted in 1984 was limited to a narrow range of 
computers
Šnamely, those containing national security 
information or financial data and tho
se operated by or on 
behalf of the government. 
See
 Counterfeit Access Device 
and Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1984, Pub. L. No. 98
-473, § 2102, 98 Stat. 2190, 2190
Œ91. None of the computers 
to which the CFAA initially applied were accessible to the 
gene
ral public; affirmative authorization of some kind was 
presumptively required.
 When section 1030(a)(2)(c) was added in 1996 to extend 
the prohibition on unauthorized access to any ﬁprotected 
computer,ﬂ the Senate Judiciary Committee explained that 
 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 29  the amen
dment was designed to ﬁto increase protection for 
the privacy and confidentiality of computer information.ﬂ 
S. Rep. No. 104
-357, at 7 (emphasis added). The legislative 
history of section 1030 thus makes clear that the prohibition 
on unauthorized access is properly understood to apply only 
to private information
Šinformation delineated as private 
through use of a per
mission requirement of some sort. As 
one prominent commentator has put it, ﬁan authentication 
requirement, such as a password gate, is needed to create the 
necessary barrier that divides open spaces from closed 
spaces on the Web.ﬂ Orin S. Kerr, 
Norms of Co
mputer 
Trespass
, 116 Colum. L. Rev. 1143, 1161 (2016). Moreover, 
elsewhere in the statute, password fraud is cited as a means 
by which a computer may be accessed without authorization, 
see
 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1030(a)(6),
12
 bolstering the idea that 
authorization is 
only required for password
-protected sites 
or sites that otherwise prevent the general public from 
viewing the information.
 We therefore conclude that hiQ has raised a serious 
question as to whether the reference to access ﬁwithout 
authorizationﬂ limits th
e scope of the statutory coverage to 
computer information for which authorization or access 
permission, such as password authentication, is generally 
required. Put differently, the CFAA contemplates the 
existence of three kinds of computer information: 
(1)
 information for which access is open to the general 
public and permission is not required, (2) information for 
 12 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1030(a)(6) provides: ﬁWhoever 
. . . knowingly and 
with intent to defraud traffics 
. . . in any password or similar information 
through which a computer may be accessed without au
thorization, if
Š(A) such trafficking affects interstate or foreign commerce; or (B) such 
computer is used by or for the Government of the United States; 
. . . shall 
be punished as provided in subsection (c) of this section.ﬂ
 30 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  which authorization is required and has been given, and 
(3)
 information for which authorization is required but has 
not been given (or, in the c
ase of the prohibition on 
exceeding authorized access, has not been given for the part 
of the system accessed). Public LinkedIn profiles, available 
to anyone with an Internet connection, fall into the first 
category. With regard to such information, the ﬁb
reaking and 
enteringﬂ analogue invoked so frequently during 
congressional consideration has no application, and the 
concept of ﬁwithout authorizationﬂ is inapt.
 Neither of the cases LinkedIn principally relies upon is 
to the contrary. LinkedIn first cites 
Nosal II
, 844 F.3d 1024 
(9th Cir. 2016). As we have already stated, 
Nosal II
 held that 
a former employee who used current employees™ login 
credentials to access company computers and collect 
confidential information had acted ﬁ‚without authorization™ 
in vi
olation of the CFAA.ﬂ 
Nosal II
, 844 F.3d at 1038. The 
computer information the defendant accessed in 
Nosal II
 was 
thus plainly one which no one could access without 
authorization.
 So too with regard to the system at issue in 
Power 
Ventures
, 844 F.3d 1058 (
9th Cir. 2016), the other precedent 
upon which LinkedIn relies. In that case, Facebook sued 
Power Ventures, a social networking website that aggregated 
social networking information from multiple platforms, for 
accessing Facebook users™ data and using that
 data to send 
mass messages as part of a promotional campaign. 
Id.
 at 
1062Œ63. After Facebook sent a cease
-and
-desist letter, 
Power Ventures continued to circumvent IP barriers and gain 
access to password
-protected Facebook member profiles. 
Id.
 at 1063. We
 held that after receiving an individualized cease
-and
-desist letter, Power Ventures had accessed Facebook 
computers ﬁwithout authorizationﬂ and was therefore liable 
 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 31  under the C
FAA. 
Id.
 at 1067
Œ68. But we specifically 
recognized that ﬁFacebook has tried to
 limit and control 
access to its websiteﬂ as to the purposes for which Power 
Ventures sought to use it. 
Id.
 at 1063. Indeed, Facebook 
requires its users to register with a unique username and 
password, and Power Ventures required that Facebook users 
provid
e their Facebook username and password to access 
their Facebook data on Power Ventures™ platform. 
Facebook, Inc. v. Power Ventures, Inc.
, 844 F. Supp. 2d 
1025, 1028 (N.D. Cal. 2012). While Power Ventures was 
gathering user data that was protected by Facebo
ok™s 
username and password authentication system, the data hiQ 
was scraping was available to anyone with a web browser.
 In sum, 
Nosal II
 and 
Power Ventures
 control situations 
in which authorization generally is required and has either 
never been given or h
as been revoked. As 
Power Ventures
 indicated, the two cases do not control the situation present 
here, in which information is ﬁpresumptively open to all 
comers.ﬂ 
Power Ventures
, 844 F.3d at 1067 n.2.
 Our understanding that the CFAA is premised on a 
distin
ction between information presumptively accessible to 
the general public and information for which authorization 
is generally required is consistent with our interpretation of 
a provision of the Stored Communications Act (ﬁSCAﬂ), 
18 U.S.C. 
§ 2701 et seq.
,13
 nearly identical to the CFAA 
provision at issue. 
Compare
 18 U.S.C. 
§ 2701(a) 
(ﬁ[W]hoever
Š(1) intentionally accesses without 
 13 The Stored Communications Act
, enacted as part of the Electronic 
Communications Privacy Act of 1986, Pub. L. No. 99
-508, 100 Stat. 
1848, provides privacy protections for e
-mail and other electronic 
communications by limiting the ability of the government to compel 
disclosure by intern
et service providers.
 32 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  authorization a facility through which an electronic 
communication service is provided; or (2) intentionally 
exceeds an authorizati
on to access that facility; and thereby 
obtains 
. . . unauthorized access to a wire or electronic 
communication 
. . . shall be punished 
. . . .ﬂ) 
with
 18 U.S.C. 
§ 1030(a)(2)(C) (ﬁWhoever 
. . . intentionally accesses a 
computer without authorization or exceeds authorized 
access, and thereby obtains 
. . . information from any 
protected computer 
. . . shall be punished 
. . . .ﬂ). ﬁThe 
similarity of language in [the SCA and the CFAA] is a strong 
indication that [they] should be interpreted 
pari passu
.ﬂ 
Northcross v. Bd. of Educ. of Memphis City Schools
, 412 U.S. 427, 428 (1973); 
see also United States v. Sioux
, 362 F.3d 1241, 1246 (9th Cir. 2004).
 Addressing the ﬁwithout authorizationﬂ provision of 
the 
SCA, we have distinguished between public websites and 
non-public or ﬁrestrictedﬂ websites, such as websites that 
ﬁare password
-protected 
. . . or require the user to purchase 
access by entering a credit card number.ﬂ 
Konop v. 
Hawaiian Airlines, Inc.
, 302 F.3d 868, 875 (9th Cir. 2002); 
see also id.
 at 879 n.8. As we explained in 
Konop
, in enacting 
the SCA, ﬁCongress wanted to protect electronic 
communications that are configured to be privateﬂ and are 
ﬁ‚not intended to be available to the public.™ﬂ 
Id.
 at 875 
(quoting S. Rep. No. 99
-541, at 35
Œ36 (1986)). The House 
Committee on the Judiciary stated, with respect to the 
section of the SCA at issue, section 2701, that ﬁ[a] person 
may reasonably conclude that a communication is readily 
accessible to the gen
eral public if the 
. . . means of access are 
widely known, and if a person does not, in the course of 
gaining access, encounter any warnings, encryptions, 
password requests, or other indicia of intended privacy.ﬂ 
H.R. Rep. No. 99
-647, at 62 (1986). The Com
mittee further 
explained that ﬁelectronic communications which the 
 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 33  service provider attempts to keep confidential would be 
protected, while the statute would impose no liability for 
access to features configured to be readily accessible to the 
general publ
ic.ﬂ 
Id.
 at 63.
 Both the legislative history of section 1030 of the CFAA 
and the legislative history of section 2701 of the SCA, with 
its similar ﬁwithout authorizationﬂ provision, then, support 
the district court™s distinction between ﬁprivateﬂ computer 
networks and websites, protected by a password 
authentication system and ﬁnot visible to the public,ﬂ and 
websites that are accessible to the general public.
 Finally, the rule of lenity favors our narrow 
interpretation of the ﬁwithout 
authorizationﬂ provision in the 
CFAA. The statutory prohibition on unauthorized access 
applies both to civil actions and to criminal prosecutions
Šindeed, ﬁ
§ 1030 is primarily a criminal statute.ﬂ 
LVRC 
Holdings LLC v. Brekka
, 581 F.3d 1127, 1134 (9th Cir. 
2009). ﬁBecause we must interpret the statute consistently, 
whether we encounter its application in a criminal or 
noncriminal context, the rule of lenity applies.ﬂ 
Leocal v. 
Ashcroft
, 543 U.S. 1, 11 n.8 (2004). As we explained in 
Nosal I
, we therefore favor
 a narrow interpretation of the 
CFAA™s ﬁwithout authorizationﬂ provision so as not to turn 
a criminal hacking statute into a ﬁsweeping Internet
-policing 
mandate.ﬂ 
Nosal I
, 676 F.3d at 858; 
see also id.
 at 863.
 For all these reasons, it appears that the CFA
A™s 
prohibition on accessing a computer ﬁwithout authorizationﬂ 
is violated when a person circumvents a computer™s 
generally applicable rules regarding access permissions, 
such as username and password requirements, to gain access 
to a computer. It is like
ly that when a computer network 
generally permits public access to its data, a user™s accessing 
that publicly available data will not constitute access without 
34 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  authorization under the CFAA. The data hiQ seeks to access 
is not owned by LinkedIn and has not 
been demarcated by 
LinkedIn as private using such an authorization system. HiQ 
has therefore raised serious questions about whether 
LinkedIn may invoke the CFAA to preempt hiQ™s possibly 
meritorious tortious interference claim.
14
 We note that entities that 
view themselves as victims of 
data scraping are not without resort, even if the CFAA does 
not apply: state law trespass to chattels claims may still be 
available.
15
 And other causes of action, such as copyright 
 14 LinkedIn asserts that the illegality of hiQ™s actions under the 
CFAA is also grounds for holding (1) that hiQ™s injuries are not 
cognizable as irreparable harm, (2) that hiQ™s contracts are illegal and so 
their breach cannot give ri
se to a cognizable tortious interference with 
contract claim, and (3) that LinkedIn has a legitimate business interest in 
asserting its rights under federal law that justifies its interference with 
hiQ™s contracts. 
See supra 
n.10. These contentions are ins
ufficient at this 
stage for the same reasons LinkedIn™s CFAA preemption position does 
not preclude preliminary injunctive relief.
 15 Linke
dIn™s cease
-and
-desist letter also asserted a state common 
law claim of trespass to chattels. Although we do not decide
 the question, 
see supra
 pp. 17Œ18, it may be that web scraping exceeding the sco
pe of 
the website owner™s c
onsent gives rise to a common law tort claim for 
trespass to chattels, at least when it causes demonstrable harm. 
Compare 
eBay, Inc. v. Bidder™s Edge, Inc.
, 100 F. Supp. 2d 1058, 1070 (N.D. Cal. 
2000) (finding that eBay had estab
lished a likelihood of success on its 
trespass claim against the auction
-aggregating site Bidder™s Edge 
because, although eBay™s ﬁsite is publicly accessible,ﬂ ﬁeBay™s servers 
are private property, conditional access to which eBay grants the public,ﬂ 
and B
idder™s Edge had exceeded the scope of any consent, even if it did 
not cause physical harm); 
Register.com, Inc. v. Verio, Inc.
, 356 F.3d 393, 
437Œ38 (2d Cir. 2004) (holding that a company that scraped a 
competitor™s website to obtain data for marketing purposes likely 
committed trespass to chattels, because scraping could
Šalthough it did 
not yet
Šcause physical harm to the plaintiff™s computer server
s); 
Sw. 
Airlines Co. v. FareChase, Inc.
, 318 F. Supp. 2d 435, 442 (N.D. Tex. 
  HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 35  infringement, misappropriation, unjust enrichm
ent, 
conversion, breach of contract, or breach of privacy, may 
also lie. 
See, e.g.
, Associated Press v. Meltwater U.S. 
Holdings, Inc.
, 931 F. Supp. 2d 537, 561 (S.D.N.Y. 2013) 
(holding that a software company™s conduct in scraping and 
aggregating copyright
ed news articles was not protected by 
fair use).
 D. 
 Public Interest
 Finally, we must consider the public interest in granting 
or denying the preliminary injunction. Whereas the balance 
of equities focuses on the parties, ﬁ[t]he public interest 
inquiry pri
marily addresses impact on non
-parties rather 
than parties,ﬂ and takes into consideration ﬁthe public 
consequences in employing the extraordinary remedy of 
injunction.ﬂ 
Bernhardt v. Los Angeles Cty.
, 339 F.3d 920, 
931Œ32 (9th Cir. 2003) (citations omitted)
. As the district court observed, each side asserts that its 
own position would benefit the public interest by 
maximizing the free flow of information on the Internet. HiQ 
points out that data scraping is a common method of 
gathering information, used by s
earch engines, academic 
researchers, and many others. According to hiQ, letting 
 2004) (holding that the use of a scraper to glean flight information was 
unauthorized as it interfered with Southwest™s use and possession of its 
site, even if the scraping did no
t cause physical harm or deprivation), 
with Ticketmaster Corp. v. Tickets.Com, Inc.
, No. 2:99
-cv-07654
-HLH
-VBK, 2003 WL 21406289, at *3 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 7, 2003) (holding that 
the use of a web crawler to gather information from a public website, 
without mor
e, is insufficient to fulfill the harm requirement of a trespass 
action); 
Intel Corp. v. Hamidi
, 30 Cal. 4th 1342, 1364 (2003) (holding 
that ﬁtrespass to chattels is not actionable if it does not involve actual or 
threatened injuryﬂ to property and the def
endant™s actions did not 
damage or interfere with the operation of the computer systems at issue).
 36 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  established entities that already have accumulated large user 
data sets decide who can scrape that data from otherwise 
public websites gives those entities outsized control ove
r how such data may be put to use.
 For its part, LinkedIn argues that the preliminary 
injunction is against the public interest because it will invite 
malicious actors to access LinkedIn™s computers and attack 
its servers. As a result, the argument goes, L
inkedIn and 
other companies with public websites will be forced to 
choose between leaving their servers open to such attacks or 
protecting their websites with passwords, thereby cutting 
them off from public view.
 Although there are significant public inter
ests on both 
sides, the district court properly determined that, on balance, 
the public interest favors hiQ™s position. We agree with the 
district court that giving companies like LinkedIn free rein 
to decide, on any basis, who can collect and use data
Šdat
a that the companies do not own, that they otherwise make 
publicly available to viewers, and that the companies 
themselves collect and use
Šrisks the possible creation of 
information monopolies that would disserve the public 
interest.
 Internet companies and
 the public do have a substantial 
interest in thwarting denial
-of-service attacks
16
 and blocking 
abusive users, identity thieves, and other ill
-intentioned 
actors. But we do not view the district court™s injunction as 
opening the door to such malicious acti
vity. The district 
 16 In a denial
-of-service (DoS) attack, an attacker seeks to prevent 
legitimate users from accessing a targeted computer or network, 
typically by flooding the
 target with requests and thereby overloading 
the server.
  HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN 37  court made clear that the injunction does not preclude 
LinkedIn from continuing to engage in ﬁtechnological self
-helpﬂ against bad actors
Šfor example, by employing ﬁanti
-bot measures to prevent, 
e.g.
, harmful intrusions or attacks 
on its server.ﬂ Although an injunction preventing a company 
from securing even the public parts of its website from 
malicious actors would raise serious concerns, such concerns 
are not present here.
17
 The district court™s conclusion that the public interest 
favors granting the preliminary injunction was appropriate.
 CONCLUSION
 We AFFIRM 
the district court™s determination that hiQ 
has established the elements required for a preliminary 
injunction and remand for further proceedings.
  WALLACE, Circuit Judge, speci
ally concurring
: I concur in the majority opinion.  I write separately to 
express my concern that ﬁin some cases, parties appeal 
orders granting or denying motions for preliminary 
injunctions in order to ascertain the views of the appellate 
court on the me
rits of the litigation.ﬂ  
Sports Form, Inc. v. 
United Press Int™l, Inc.
, 686 F.2d 750, 753 (9th Cir. 1982); 
see also California v. Azar
, 911 F.3d 558, 583
Œ84 (9th Cir. 
2018).  For example, here LinkedIn™s counsel suggested that 
we should address the CFAA q
uestion in this appeal for 
 17 We note that LinkedIn has not specifically challenged the scope 
of the injunction.
 38 HIQ LABS V
. LINKED
IN  ﬁpragmatic reason[s]ﬂ because it ﬁis going to be a significant 
issue on remand no matter what happens to this injunction.ﬂ
 I emphasize that appealing from a preliminary injunction 
to obtain an appellate court™s view of the merits
 often leads 
to ﬁunnecessary delay to the parties and inefficient use of 
judicial resources.ﬂ  
Sports Form
, 686 F.2d at 753.
  These 
appeals generally provide ﬁlittle guidanceﬂ because ﬁof the 
limited scope of our review of the lawﬂ and ﬁbecause the 
fully d
eveloped factual record may be materially different 
from that initially before the district court.ﬂ  
Id. The district court here also stayed any effort to prepare 
the case for trial pending the appeal of the preliminary 
injunction.  We have repeatedly admo
nished district courts 
not to delay trial preparation to await an interim ruling on a 
preliminary injunction.  
See, e.g.
, California
, 911 F.3d at 
583Œ84.  This case could have well proceeded to a 
disposition on the merits without the delay in processing th
e interlocutory appeal. Given the purported urgency of the 
case™s resolution, the parties might ﬁhave been better served 
to pursue aggressivelyﬂ its claims in the district court, ﬁrather 
than apparently awaiting the outcome of this appealﬂ for 
nearly two y
ears.  
Id.
 at 584 (citation omitted).
 